---
layout: post
title: The Energetics of Molecular Adaptation in Transcriptional Regulation
date: 2017-09-12 13:32:20 +0300
description: Information about the project, website, and links to the paper and SI
img: seg.png # Add image post (optional)
permalink: index.html
---

---
<center>
<b><i>Griffin Chure, Manuel Razo-Mejia, Nathan M. Belliveau, Tal Einav, Stephanie L.
Barnes, Zofii Kaczmarek, Mitchell Lewis, and Rob Phillips</i></b>
</center>



## Abstract
Mutation is a critical mechanism by which evolution explores the functional
landscape of proteins. Despite our ability to experimentally inflict
mutations at will, it remains difficult to link sequence-level perturbations
to systems-level responses.
Here, we present a framework to link individual mutations in a
transcriptional repressor to the parameters which govern its response through
measuring changes in the free energy of the system. We find the energetic
effects of the mutations can be categorized into several classes which have
stereotypical curves as a function of the inducer concentration. We
experimentally test these diagnostic predictions using the well-characterized
LacI repressor of *Escherichia coli*, probing several mutations in the
DNA binding and inducer binding domains. We find that the change in gene
expression in response to a point mutation can be captured by modifying a
subset of the model parameters which describe the respective domain of the
wild-type protein. These parameters appear to be insulated, with mutations in
the DNA binding domain altering only the DNA affinity and those in the
inducer binding domain altering only the allosteric parameters. Changing
these subsets of parameters tunes the free energy of the system in a way that
is concordant with theoretical expectations. Finally, we show that the
induction profiles and resulting free energies associated with double mutants
can be predicted with quantitative accuracy given knowledge of the single
mutants, providing an avenue for identifying and quantifying epistatic
interactions.


## Significance 
We present a biophysical model of allosteric transcriptional regulation that
directly links the location of a mutation within a repressor to the
biophysical parameters that describe its behavior. We explore the phenotypic
space of a repressor with mutations in either the inducer- or DNA-binding
domains. Using the LacI repressor in *Escherichia coli*, we make sharp, falsifiable
predictions and use this framework to generate a null hypothesis for how
double mutants behave given knowledge of the single mutants. Linking
mutations to the parameters which govern the system allows for quantitative
predictions of how the free energy of the system changes as a result,
permitting coarse graining of high-dimensional data into a single-parameter
description of the mutational consequences.
